hi I'm Linda DeSimone
seamstress and designer and today we're
going to see how to sew a blanket the
things that you will need are the fabric
that you've chosen for the blanket
batting scissors pin matching thread and
sewing machine you will also need
blanket binding it's step one is to cut
two pieces of fabric the size of the
blanket that you want and the batting
that's going to go in between the two
pieces of fabric cut that to the same
size step two is to take one piece of
your fabric with the right side out
place it down in between put your
batting and then lay your second piece
of fabric on top with the right side up
pin them together and then what I like
to do is baste it so that you can
actually be holding it together and
basting is just a very long big stitch
that's easy to come out if you wanted to
you could do it on the machine or you
could do it by hand I just did it by
hand here step three is to put on your
blanket binding it opens up into two
pieces two sides put one side on once on
the front one side in the back and then
you pin it all together so you'll be
able to sew it on the machine make sure
though that you're catching both sides
do that all around the perimeter of your
blanket okay step four is we're going to
go over to the sewing machine now that
we have our blanket binding pins on and
sew our seam all the way across and all
around the perimeter of the blanket my
name is Linda DeSimone
and thanks for watching this video